.\"
.\" man page for kaliveda (the executable)
.\"
.TH KALIVEDA 1 2015-02-20 KaliVeda KaliVeda
.\"
.SH NAME
kaliveda \- use KaliVeda data analysis toolkit in a ROOT interactive session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kaliveda
.I "[options] files ..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kaliveda
is simply a wrapper around the
\fIroot\fR(1) C++ interpreter.
.PP
It allows to start a
.B ROOT
interactive session with the
.B KaliVeda
environment initialised and ready to use.
.SH OPTIONS
Command-line options are passed to \fIroot\fR(1), see the associated man page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SB
\fIkaliveda-config\fR(1), \fIroot\fR(1)
.PP
For more information about
.B KaliVeda
(users guide, class documentation, etc.),
.UR http://indra.in2p3.fr/KaliVedaDoc
see the website
.UE .
.SH FILES
.TP
<\fIetcdir\fR>/\fBkaliveda.rootrc\fR
System-wide configuration file. <\fIetcdir\fR> either <\fIprefix\fR>/etc, or
something like \fB/usr/share/kaliveda/etc\fR
.TP
\fB~/.kvrootrc\fR, \fB./.kvrootrc\fR
User configuration file
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
\fI<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>\fR
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the KaliVeda Development Team <kaliveda-dev@lists.launchpad.net>
