.\"
.\" man page for kaliveda-config
.\"
.TH KALIVEDA-CONFIG 1 2015-02-20 KaliVeda KaliVeda
.\"
.SH NAME
kaliveda-config \- get information on the KaliVeda installation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kaliveda-config
.I "[options]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kaliveda-config
can be used to obtain information on the installed locations of the
headers and libraries etc. of the
.B KaliVeda
data analysis toolkit. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-\-help
Gives a short list of options available, and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version 
Report the version number of the installed \fBKaliVeda\fR, and exit. 
.TP
.B \-\-bindir
Print the directory where the executable applications are installed. 
.TP
.B \-\-libdir
Print the directory where the libraries are installed. 
.TP
.B \-\-incdir
Print the directory where the headers are installed. 
.TP
.B \-\-libs
Output the list of all installed \fBKaliVeda\fR libraries, each prefixed with
the '-l' option needed by the linker.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
In order to compile your code using \fBKaliVeda\fR classes, you need to indicate
to the compiler where the header files are installed:
.RS 
.nf 

g++ \-I`\fIkaliveda-config\fR \-\-incdir` ...

.fi
.RE
In order to link your compiled code with the \fBKaliVeda\fR shared libraries,
you need to indicate to the linker what they are called and where they are
installed:
.RS 
.nf 

g++ \-L`\fIkaliveda-config\fR \-\-libdir` `\fIkaliveda-config\fR \-\-libs` ...

.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.SB
\fIkaliveda\fR(1)
.PP
For more information about
.B KaliVeda
(users guide, class documentation, etc.) see the website
.UR   http://indra.in2p3.fr/KaliVedaDoc
\fIhttp://indra.in2p3.fr/KaliVedaDoc\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
<\fIetcdir\fR>/\fBkaliveda.rootrc\fR
System-wide configuration file. <\fIetcdir\fR> either <\fIprefix\fR>/etc, or
something like \fB/usr/share/kaliveda/etc\fR
.TP
\fB~/.kvrootrc\fR, \fB./.kvrootrc\fR
User configuration file
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see
.UR http://www.gnu.org/licenses/
\fI<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>\fR
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the KaliVeda Development Team <kaliveda-dev@lists.launchpad.net>
